---
layout: post
comments: false
title:  "Pedestrian Detection 101 using HOG"
excerpt: "We implement a pedestrian detection system to solve the classical problem in computer vision. Out of date features (HOG) are used as the representation features and fed into the SVM training to obtain a detector."
date:   2016-03-22 12:00:00
mathjax: true
---

Pedestrian detection is a challenging problem in computer vision. One of the typical and effective frameworks applies histogram of gradient (HOG) as descriptor and linear SVM to train the pedestrian detector. Using HOG descriptors to represent training samples, we can train a linear detector by SVM. In detection phase, we convolve the linear detector with HOG descriptors extracted from the dense detection windows within an image, assigning detection score to each window. A threshold is enforced to decide whether a window contains a human.

* [Results]()
* [Code]()

### Pipeline

#### Linear Detector Training
Given a set of training images, we divide it into positive samples and negative samples. The positive samples are the images containing only one pedestrian, while the negative ones contain no human. We resize each sample to a fixed size, i.e. 128 x 64. This size is applied to the training samples in the implementation later. Then we extract HOG descriptor for each training sample, which is a 15 x 7 x 36 = 3,780-dim vector. All the HOG descriptors are fed into two-class linear SVM to train the human detector. The obtained detector is also a 3,780D vector. In practice, we reshape the detector to a 3D matrix, i.e. in 15 x 7 x 36, for the convenience of detection in the following step.

#### Sliding Window Strategy 
Given an image, our task is to detect the pedestrian(s) from it. Let us take a 912 x 912 grayscale image for example. 
It's divided into 113 x 113 blocks.
We can extract the HOG descriptor for each block and then form a 3D matrix in 113 x 113 x 36. 
In the above steps, we train a linear pedestrian detector in 15 x 7 x 36. Then the 15 x 7 x 36 detector is convolved on the 113 x 113 x 36 matrix, which yields central part of the convolution in 113 x 113. We enforce a threshold to select the position where the score of convolution is above the threshold as hypothesis. 
In this project, we will use the OpenCV function "filter2D" to implement the sliding window strategy.

#### Multiple Scale Manner 
In practice, the scales of human are various. However, the scale of the detector is fixed (15 x 7 x 36), which makes it difficult to detect the human on other scale, e.g. 30 x 14. For better performance, we perform detection on multiple scales of a given image. To achieve detection on multiple scales, we simply resize the image by several fixed factors, e.g. 0.21, 0.27, 0.3. The thresholds for these scales are set to 3.0, 3.5 and 4.5 respectively.


### Extra Credit

### Experiment Results

